Alright so we're going to take a look
at actual validation using Spring and
Spring MVC here. So I've gone into the
RecipeCommand object and I've annotated
it with some validation constraints that
we want to apply. So you can see there
on line 24, I've added NotBlank and a
Size restriction on the description. I
think we should have at least three
characters for the description and a max
of 255. Now using a max of 255 here
because in our JPA classes, we've
specified String properties and in the
database by default because we didn't
specify any constraints there or mapping
parameters. By default Hibernate is going
to create a bar chart column with a
length of 255. So that's just the default
behavior of Hibernate. So I'm playing
along with the default behavior of
Hibernate and setting that to 255
characters there. And then for the prep
Time and cookTime, I'm saying we
probably want a minimum one minute and I
don't think anybody's going to do a
recipe over a thousand minutes long or
cook anything over a thousand minutes. I
hope. So these are just trying to put in
some sensible constraints there. Servings
min of 1, max of 100 and then for
our property for the url, I'm saying it
must be a URL. Now that url property, it
will allow a blank. So if I want to do it,
I could also double up and say not blank
like so and then that's going to say we
must provide a valid URL. So sometimes
these are a little tricky. You can use
multiples but I'm going to allow the URL
to be optional and then I'm also saying
on the directions and that should not be
blank either. So let's take a quick
look at our tests. So I've added in a new
test and actually this one probably will
fail. Let's go ahead and run the
controller test.
I don't think I have all the validations
there. So we can see the new recipe is
failing right now. And we'll go ahead and
fix that because what's happening is
it's failing out of constraint but the
test that I added to test the validation,
that is working. The older test is
failing because one of our validations
is getting triggered. And let's go take a
look at the Controller first. I'll show
you the implementation of what's going
on and we'll go fix the test. We can see
on line 53, I've added in the @Valid
annotation and also on the ModelAttribute. This is important. I'm giving
it a name now. Before I wasn't but this is
ModelAttribute, that it's going to bind
that RecipeCommand to the Model so it
gets returned on this and you can see
there I also have a BindingResult. So that
it's going to be the result of the
validation and we do have to check to
make sure that it is valid. So on line
55 there, I'm going to the BindingResult and asking it if it has errors.
If so, we are going to take an action
there and I am going through and I'm
going to log out the object error. So we
do have pretty rich capabilities here
and if I scroll down here, I should see right here is my debug statement. So
the directions cannot be null. So that's
why my other test is failing. So let's go
fix that right now.
So let's see if that fixes that. So now
all my tests are passing. I'll just run all
the Controller tests make sure. Okay good
now what I want to do is I want to show
you this and we'll debug that. So this is
a nice feature in IntelliJ. So I can just
click on it and say debug and I've set a
breakpoint because I want to inspect
that object and show you that in a
little more detail. So I hit the
breakpoint on the logging. So now we have
the object error and actually I'd like to
skip down here. I want see a different
view of this. So we're inside the
iterator. So now we're here, so let's take
a look at the bindingResult and here's
my errors array and that there's
actually two errors there. So this is
quite versatile so we can see that we
have a field error on the description
and also the direction. So this is a
pretty robust handling here. You can
actually set up error codes so these are
different things and you'll see how this
comes into play later
because now we can set actual error
messages and Spring property. So when
we to get to the actual display on
the Thymeleaf template, we will actually
set up some properties there. So I'll do
that on a future video. So we can
actually define custom error messages. So
that this is a lot of robust stuff
happening here but I want you to get
some experience in seeing this. That's why I brought it up in the debugger.
So as our validations fail, we
actually get a whole array and it's
pretty rich error handling
that we have here for validation errors.
One other thing I want to point out,
let's finish this real quick and we can
close you. Now I did move the recipe URL
to a String. So just avoiding some code
reuse there. It's a good habit to get
into that. I normally do that when I'm doing a
larger project. So I'd move these into
static final String. So that they cannot
mutate and it gives you good code reuse. So that's always a good
to do so I needed this URL in two places
so I refactored it to that to that URL.
So what's going to happen now is with
these modifications, if the RecipeCommand is
good it's going to go into the save
path down there on line 64. It will save
and then we'll get our redirection back
to the show and just like before.
But if it fails what we're going to do
is redirect and send that object back to
the form. So now we will still have the RecipeCommand so
it's already going to have the data binding. So we'll redisplay the properties that
were sent to it into and to the form and
that's already going to happen inside of
Thymeleaf but we'll also have the BindingResult to work with and we'll be able to
display errors from that BindingResult. So we'll have the field errors to work
with and we'll be able to display that
right on the Thymeleaf template. So we
actually get a little more enhanced data
to work with. And in the next video I'm
going to show you how we can tap into
the field errors and provide our and
end-users feedback about what is wrong
with their form submission.